After the last lecture we ended up with both controller with two metals index and show as you might
remember the index will be used to display the least of all elements and thus show to show an individual
blog post.
So we have our Controller.
Let's now check what are the rules.
So let's run P2P artisan route least so we set out the route.
Names have posts prefix and we previously created view for the blog post but this was for the for the
way we done it previously so that's not needed anymore but we can copy the contents of that.
So now let's think where we would store the views for our Controller.
So I think it makes sense to use the same prefix as we used for all the roots of the related to blog
posts and name the folder like that because this list can just grow without limits and it would be hard
to name your templates uniquely and then find the appropriate template.
So now let's go ahead and create posts folder and inside it will create two views that index blade BHP
for displaying the least of the blog posts and the show blade BHP to display an individual blog post
so mined and notice that it is exactly the same.
The names of the templates are the same as the root names.
So this way it will make it much easier to remember what template should be rendered and everything
seems like to be automatic.
We have an index action and we render index template show action.
And here we will render the show template so let's close the terminal right now.
So now let's go back to the views and let's initially set them up so we'll pace the contents of the
original blog post blade template but we'll just remove everything inside the content section because
that's where we'll be putting our new content.
So say the changes to the same with the show blade peach B also paste the extends part that will extend
our main layout and the section content save the changes.
And now let us go back to controller so the index action is supposed to render a list of all the blog
posts so we'll use the view function to render our view and now we don't have to think What's the view
name because we know it's that Post's index the same as the action name.
And this will accept parameters which would be an array and we only have one parameter.
This would be posts and we fetch that using the blog post model all static method.
Now let's go back to the template and see how we can render a list of our blog posts.
So we have our post variable available here because we have passed it inside the controller and to iterate
over a collection.
A good way to do that is to use the for each directive so it looks like that for each.
Now we have the posts variable us post and we finish this by the end.
For each.
So now we are iterating over every element from the posts collection mind that we are supposed to have
to.
That's what's currently inside the database.
If you follow the tutorial closely at least and now we can echo what we have inside the post.
So let's add the paragraph and maybe header and here will echo the post title so remember that we can
access the model attributes or the columns of the database roll like a normal peach p attribute and
this attribute doesn't have to be defined on the Post model it is being managed ultimately by Lavell
so let's see how this will work.
So we have our website.
We do not have a link for blog posts yet but let's try.
Posts so we can see we have the modified title and random and this is what we have inside the database
so that's how we manage to display our two blog posts.
Now there is another version of the for each directive and it is called for LS and how it differs is
we can as we do here we can iterate over all the elements from the post collection and additionally
when it happens to be empty we can add the else statement.
Sorry the empty statement and if the collection happens to be empty we can display another message something
like no blog posts yet.
So obviously you won't see it right now because we have the posts inside the database
apparently I made a mistake.
This should be the end for.
Oh sorry on that.
Now let's refresh.
OK.
We have this blog posts.
But if we hold for just a second.
Remove the blog posts all and instead pass an empty array.
You can see that it works when collection was empty.
We get this.
What we defined should be inside the empty block.
So let's bring it back again.
Now let's make it easier for ourselves to go to the least of blog posts by adding a link inside the
layout so we can copy what's there and just change the label to blog posts and we can easily generate
a route by using posts index.
Now let's check if everything works so we have blog posts contact.
So everything is fine and also inside the index template where we list all the blog posts we can insert
another link to an individual blog post so we can also do that easily by adding a link.
Let's move the title Inside the link and now will generate our route.
So the action name is.
Posts show but we will also have to pass a parameter
and the parameter.
Let's remind ourselves what it should be by looking inside the terminal so it's post so it's not ideal
it's post and the Post should actually be the post I D.
So we have a post variable which comes from the this iteration using the loop and it has an idea parameter
so let's close this route.
Call
now let's go and test if that works.
So we are on the blog post list and we get that the contents of the blog post dumped because that's
what we have inside the show action.
We just dump the the the model that is being fetched the using the I.D..
So now let's actually render the view and we'll do it the same way as above in the index method will
return the view function and the action name we know is posts show the same as the method name of the
controller.
And now we can pass the post to variable and we'll also fetch it using blog post find as we did before.
Remember I've told you in the last lecture that there is another way that will help us also show that
404 not found page were on particular blog post couldn't be found.
But now let's see what we have right now.
So let's refresh blog posts.
1.
Nothing is rendered yet because we are not rendering any thing inside the view.
So now let's try to render something.
Let's go to the show and here maybe we'll have a bigger header and we'll try to render the post title
K save the changes and now let's see what happens.
We have blog posts so here we have the first second but let's see what happens if we have deferred.
So we are getting are trying to get a property title of non object and it happens because there is no
blog post with the idea free that we have specified.
And here we are just trying to fetch the blog post and it returns.
No.
So we now inside the template are accessing property of something that's not actually an object.
So there is another way we can do that and it is to use the method to find or fail.
So use this save the changes and now refresh the page and you see the 404 page of LA EVO so on production
environment it can be configured and can be different.
But now that just because we are inside the development environment we see the page prepared by Laura
VO So it's much more convenient.
Also inside the network top you can see that we have the 404.
So this makes perfect sense.
K now let's go back to the template and let's also display the contents of this blog post by using the
post content and I've also told you that we have two additional properties of every blog post this is
created out and updated.
And it is being ultimately handled by Lavell.
So now let's see how we can display our date where the blog post was created.
So let's add a string at it and try to echo the post created at.
Let's go back to the browser and see what happens.
Maybe let's try a post that does exist so we have the default way that the though is echoing the date
but the date is actually not a string and date is the object of the type car bomb.
So this is special object that is being used inside lava and you can check the Vicki page for more information.
So car bomb is a P2P library and it extends the BJP built in daytime class and it has some additional
handy methods that lets you display modified dates.
You have a link to the full documentation here.
I invite you to check that out because possibilities are almost endless.
So now let's see how lava knew that this field should be converted to date because all the other fields
are basically in their roll format.
So as they were stored inside the database.
So on the model you can actually define this what should be cast it two dates and it is a property called
dates.
So by default it adds the create it up and updated that.
So that's why it was ultimately converted to a date object.
So we haven't we didn't have to define that on the blog post model you can see that there is nothing
like this here.
So if you will have any more fields that you will add and there would also be dates you can add them
to the dates field you can find more information about the carbon library inside the Vicky for which
the ring is included to this lecture and also inside there are links to the carbon documentation so
I invite you to check that out.
Now we'll do something interesting.
So instead of displaying the plain data as we have it inside the database will show how much time has
passed since that post was added and we can achieve that using the carbon function def for humans.
So let's copy this example from the Vicky and replace what we have here with the default human same
mind.
This is a carbon object.
That's why we can call the diff for humans method on it.
Now let's refresh our post and you can see that it was added three days ago which is actually true
now if will add brand new blog post it would also display more accurate data like three seconds ago
out or something like this.
Now let's see how we can conditionally render something so copy this example with the if directive from
the Vicky and paste it to the blog posts.
You can also format it.
And now let's see what that is.
So we can use the if statements the way we do inside normal peach code.
But this time everything what's inside would just be rendered.
So if the Post I.D. one will post will render this text the same.
Here we have this.
Else if we can add as many as we like and also the else statement and this has to end with that.
And if so let's check that the blog posts post one and on the second post we have posted to.
So that works.
Now let's remove that and we'll change the condition and do something interesting.
So we'll use carbon to verify that the post was posted.
Let's say up to five minutes ago and if it was will show that it's a new post.
So for this we will have to create a new carbon object from its full namespace which is carbon slash
carbon.
And this will hold the current date and time.
So every time you create a new instance of this object it has the current date and time.
Now it also has a handy method diff in minutes and you can pass another date to compare it with.
So we'll compare it with post created at
and now if this
time difference would be less than five will display that the post is new so let's refresh our post
apparently I did something wrong here.
So here we create this one more curly brace.
Now let's refresh and there is nothing here.
You can also copy this fragment and render it to see what is the difference between now and the time
where the post was created.
So it is quite a big number.
Now let's quickly use Tinker to add a brand new blog post so far this will open the terminal and run
PJ p r t some Tinker
and will create a new instance of the up blog post will set the title to brand new and the content to
be something else doesn't really matter and finally we have to call BP save.
So we are doing it through tinkers because we would like the dates to be out to magically updated and
it won't happen if you will insert this record through database because lava is handling that.
So we have our brand new.
Now let's see the blog posts and you can see that it was posted zero minutes ago and we have our new
tag on it.
So let's also close this terminal and remove this line and maybe we can even surround that with strong
dock.
So it's obvious that it is a brand new post.
Now let's refresh and check also the older ones so they are not there.
So this is how you would do an if statement.